In introductory lesson, you already saw
basic ideas behind identifying hazards and assessing risks.
ISO 26262, formalizes this process with hazard analysis and risk assessment.
Remember, that the ultimate goal of
functional safety is to reduce risks to levels acceptable by society.
In hazard analysis and risk assessment,
you will figure out what could go wrong with your item.
Then, you will measure the risk associated with it unintended behavior.
You will then identify what the item needs to do to remain safe.
We will call this unintended behavior, a malfunction.
For example, if a lane keeping a system function,
don't twist the steering wheel too hard,
the driver could loose control of the vehicle.
There is a potential for vehicle accident,
so excessive torque would be a malfunction that leads to hazardous situation.
The hazard analysis and risk assessment contains five parts.
Situational analysis, where you identify driving conditions,
like city driving in rain.
Hazard identification, where you
analyze what goes wrong with the item under consideration.
Classification of the situation and
hazard according to severity and probability of occurrence.
Calculating the ASIL.
Driving safety goals that identify what the system will do to lower risk.